docs/Open_WebUI.md, before:

# Open WebUI

I'be been working with Open WebUI and feel its important to document my effort. A whitepaper (1) is available 

## What is Open WebUI
Open WebUI is an extensible, feature-rich, and user-friendly self-hosted AI interface designed to operate entirely offline. It supports various LLM runners, including Ollama and OpenAI-compatible APIs. [Description From the Open WebUI site](https://docs.openwebui.com/)

## What are some Open WebUI features

I initally thought about this in terms of `concepts` but features is a good word.  This is adapted/taken from the [Key Features of Open WebUI](https://docs.openwebui.com/features/). I could recite them for you but I won't. 

I had very little trouble setting this up, but I did want to get it so it used my GPU and ran in docker (docker compose).  So I built a costom docker-compose with Ollama included.  The Open WebUI lets me specify the model I want and it will pull it down through Olloma and setu it up. 

###



##Reference:

1. Designing an Open-Source LLM Interface and Social Platforms for Collectively Driven LLM Evaluation and Auditing. Available at: https://openwebui.com/assets/files/whitepaper.pdf

2.

Commit message:

Pydantic AI generated synthetic Analysts

docs/Open_WebUI.md, after:

# Open WebUI

I'be been working with Open WebUI and feel its important to document my effort. A whitepaper (1) is available 

## What is Open WebUI
Open WebUI is an extensible, feature-rich, and user-friendly self-hosted AI interface designed to operate entirely offline. It supports various LLM runners, including Ollama and OpenAI-compatible APIs. [Description From the Open WebUI site](https://docs.openwebui.com/)

## What are some Open WebUI features

I initally thought about this in terms of `concepts` but features is a good word.  This is adapted/taken from the [Key Features of Open WebUI](https://docs.openwebui.com/features/). I could recite them for you but I won't. 

I had very little trouble setting this up, but I did want to get it so it used my GPU and ran in docker (docker compose).  So I built a costom docker-compose with Ollama included.  The Open WebUI lets me specify the model I want and it will pull it down through Olloma and setu it up. 

### Specifics for this project

Some of the functionality that I am specifically interested in is how Open WebUI can help with in one case defining the funcitonality for creating synthetic users.  



## Reference:
t
1. Designing an Open-Source LLM Interface and Social Platforms for Collectively Driven LLM Evaluation and Auditing. Available at: https://openwebui.com/assets/files/whitepaper.pdf

2.
